In the last scene of the first movie Shinichi
faced off the parasite residing inside his
mom's body he was able to claim victory and
both he and Migi survived the events of the
first part but what happened afterwards what
about the parasite army that has slowely been
established somewhere
in the shadows and what about the main antagonist
Gotou from the anime in this follow-up we
will conclude Shinichi's story and look what
could have been done to finish the job quicker
safer and possibly cooler
Let's get to the essentials the threats are
an army of parasites established with the
help of human mayor Takeshi Hirokawa
Then we have the sick parasite Gotou a parasite
with a body composed
of five different parasites he's especially
dangerous and pretty difficult to get rid
of but the most as always dangerous threat
of them all is stupid human interference it
is clear that every second we waste the parasites
gain in power everyday people get killed and
end up as parasite snacks at this point nobody
knows that the mayor Mr. Hirokawa, is secretly
a parasite admirer he believes that we humans
are the real parasites he despises us and
therefore wishes for a world where all humans
are subjected to parasite control that's all
cool and stuff but he should go f-k himself
I have to admit that infiltrating the government
was a brilliant move from the parasites especially
since most parasites are not competent enough
to mimic human emotions reliably so having
humans like Mr. Hirokawa on their side is
an insanely smart
move and makes me wanna fanboy for the completely
wrong group it comes as no surprise that there
will always be certain humans that take up
any
chance to go against their own species how
to beat those people well buy them gift cards
for therapies and/or books to antidote their
internal chaos anyway this dude must have
thought if I can beat 'em I might as well
join 'em and I do have to agree at least partly
but in my opinion joining the enemy so early
on is a far greater risk than staying low-key
and see how everything plays out at least
before making a potentially stupid decision
we've all seen Saroman's dismay this poor
old chap and this part of the story Shinichi
and Migi developed a friendship in their free
time they enjoy hunting down parasites, they
philosophize
about the meaning of life and even a cooking
session finds Its place every now and then
the movie makes it very clear that the loss
of his mother as well as the many lives that
were taken in the first part turned Shinichi
into a Japanese High School Batman which I
personally like a lot it doesn't take long
until we find out the Tamiya the schizophrenic
parasite/mother/mad scientist has convinced
a human journalist to shadow Migi and
Shinichi her intentions are entirely clear
in
the movie whether she's keeping an eye on
them out of something like Compassion or just
pure self-interest we don't really know
Her behavior is pretty ambiguous and while
she
doesn't really seem to be able to grasp how
to smile she definitely knows how to use her
human sex-appeal go figure But the key word
that I want to talk about is infiltration
if the parasites are gaining massive Advantage
by infiltrating human institutions like politics
and journalism then it should be clear that
we as humans should proceed similarly just
like Tamiya put a journalist onto Shinichi
and Migi
we should be putting a journalist onto Tamiya
she frequently meets up with the other higher-ups
inside the parasite imperium.
Indicating who is pulling the strings is of
crucialy importance if we are serious about
winning this fight it is true that the parasites
are able to freely shapeshift their appearance
which could make this whole mission a little
bit problematic but Mr. Hirokawa is human
and therefore very prone to detection note
that this endeavor can only be performed with
human support any parasite would be detected
instantly the obvious goal of this approach
would be to eradicate the parasites as quick
and as efficient as possible but don't get
me wrong I could watch Shinichi and Migi systematically
hunt down parasites all day long but it just
isn't
very productive + it is potentially dangerous
If he's serious about killing all parasites
to establish general safety again and he needs
a more widespread approach and no I'm not
talkin about nukes here so instead of proving
the journalist that fell for Tamiya that she
indeed is a parasite too and then leaving
him behind just like that Shinichi should
have considered to work with them together
he should have ensured his safety until he
as a human journalist could find and deliver
evidence backed proof covering everything
about the parasites in charge he could have
easily handed this prove to the police without
necessarily revealing Shinichi's power this
would have ensured a large-scale government
operation and the parasitic threat could have
been completely eradicated within mere days
many of you have hinted that in the anime
Migi has threatened
Shinichi if he were to reveal anything about
his condition the movie follows a slightly
different pace at this point Migi has already
become much more approachable and sensitive
to Shinichi's desires Satomi and Shinichi
are on better
terms again after all that has happened in
the first part they do a good job in comforting
each other which I believe to be very important
emotionally after all they both went through
quite some stuff however it still gives me
anxiety seeing Satomi roaming around freely
completely not knowing about the psychopathic
mutant parasites out there that will hijack
your brain and eat it like a six-year-old
devours his Slurpee especially Shinichi's
decision to neglect the truth and not come
forward with it bothers me a lot there are
only two logical options yet he doesn't go
for neither firstly staying away from her
completely this would allow her to stay safe
in so far that she wouldn't become a Target
by being around Shinichi who can constantly
be sensed by random parasites at any given
moment
the downside on the other hand would be that
he can't actively intervene if she
should randomly be attacked by any of those
sick f-ks it would be easy to convince her
to stay away from you and not be an unnecessary
burden while you are fighting against the
parasite army hiding her somewhere up in the
mountains of hokkaido should perhaps suffice
to keep a relatively safe at least temporarily
it's cliche but it does work being rational
about stuff rather than emotional is always
preferable in dangerous situations and to
be adequately rational requires to be as honest
as one can be by the way this would have also
saved his mother in the previous part but
many
of you have pointed out Migi actively blocked
that option by threatening Shinichi you see
honesty pays out but sometimes the only answer
is brute force in our next scene Shinichi
gets followed by five parasites at the same
time.
The hardcore fans out there know exactly what
this means we are about to face Gotou the
sick lab rat who's body is composed of five
different parasites Gotou is basically comparable
to an octopus and let's be honest here parasites
and octopuses have a lot in common no matter
how you look at it an Octopus has 3 hearts,
9 brains and blue blood which is freaking
awesome if you ask me and at least as alien
as any of those parasites what it means to
have nine brains well I don't know but in
the case of Gotou we do need to kill each
parasite residing in his body to completely
wipe him out one of the problematic aspects
of Gotou's existence besides is 5 lives is
his tendency to be five times more aggressive
and bloodthirsty than solo parasites running
away makes sense
but a future encounter can't be avoided so
gathering as much information about him as
possible could be worth it nevertheless in
the movie Shinichi and Migi try to avoid direct
confrontation and run away but they eventually
decide to face Gotou directly there are multiple
things to mention here but first of all how
dare you to run away from this bloodthirsty
parasite whose head you've just decapitated
while
a group of young women is coming for a stroll
in the park it's like nobody has any chance
against that monster but you in a radius of
about 2 million miles so running away I don't
know man seems a bit irresponsible to me furthermore
you've just beheaded the most powerful parasite
out there that should motivate you a little
bit more a chance like this won't presents
itself anymore that easily and with Shinichi's
parasitic Powers he could have easily finished
the job shout out to Columbus from Zombieland
if you ain't sure you better hit it twice
Shinichi should have known better because
of the exact same mistake his mom got killed
in the first part meanwhile the journalist
who has ventured out on his own to expose
the parasites left by Mr. Hirokawa became
too much of a threat and therefore a target
I have mentioned how this could have been
avoided if he cooperated with Shinichi or
other big forces rather than trying to set
things straight on his own especially since
he's only human and therefore no match for
any parasite I understand that he is an investigative
journalist and has a certain type of temperament
usually those people are very brave people
who can put the truth about anything else
which is admirable but Mr. Kuramori is also
a single father of a young girl his most important
duty therefore would have been to keep his
daughter safe no matter what So, before making
any moves, he should made sure that his daughter
was out of reach for any parasites.
That would have been easily achievable in
just a few short days.
Furthermore, he had already met Shinichi before
and knew that he is a kind and supportive
character.
He would have most likely helped him out,
or at least ensured the safety of his daughter.
but he didn't plan anything and jumped into
the mess without making any preparations which
is reckless and stupid to say the least especially
when you think about his daughter when the
parasites attacked his household he was shopping
for groceries of course his wife has passed
away not too long ago so his daughter stayed
home alone and became the latest in theory
avoidable victim of the parasites I can't
imagine how that feels but it must suck knowing
that you had the chance to avoid this but
even if he did take measurements and kept
her somewhere safe he was very likely to meet
his death anyway after all he was picking
a fight with the parasites that his daughter
got killed though was not necessary and I'll
explain why His rate of survival was slim
to begin with, no matter how you look at it.
But as a father, I would have expected him
to prepare certain things in case of his death
– which, again was likely to happen.
He didn’t do anything of that sort.
This bears the question: Who would have taken
care of the girl in case of his death?
If he didn’t have an answer to this question,
then he would not have ventured out, and if
he did have a solution, then he would have
placed her save first and instructed those
in charge what to do in case he won’t return.
This leads me to my next conclusion Mr. Kuramori
was thoughtless and too rash in his actions
which led to his daughter's death if you wanna
recklessly throw away your life be my guest
but if there are people around you who rely
on your well-being then you should think carefully
what you are going to do next if for some
reason you just have to go and risk your life
because of your believes or whatever then
that's completely fine but you must think
and prepare a safety net for those relying
on you in case you don't make it back
the identity of the parasites and Mr. Hirokawa's
involvement leaked out the government started
a huge action plan to identify the threat
and get rid of them one by one looking at
these scenes I don't think they need any help
or inputs
from a YouTuber on how to beat those parasites
their efficiency is on another level how about
we temporarily switch sides and try to beat
this big-scale government intervention instead
hell yeah what they do is they systematically
screen a batch of people and identify the
parasites among them if they find one well
then this is what happens I love how does
Japanese SWAT member can't help but be polite
when sending a parasite into its death that's
some cold blooded s***
in the first scenes of his grand plan we have
seen that there are countless heavily armored
Special Forces with plenty of backup they
use big caliber shotguns to blast away anything
in front of it they know what's up but as
a parasite and especially as a group of a
few dozen parasites this situation shouldn't
be too much of a threat if you think it through
the simplest way to ensure your safety here
would be to take these hundreds of people
as hostages as a parasite you are able to
cut people in half and mere seconds so you
would have had plenty of time to react accordingly
it would have required some organizational
skills but with the help with our high-profile
politician Hirokawa this should not have been
an issue I give him a thumbs down for the
effort taking hostages would have ensured
your safety
temporarily but how could you possibly get
out of there if I were a parasite I would
have shape-shifted myself into one of the
human hostages if we were a group of let's
say 24 parasites I would have divided us into
four groups of each 6 parasites and then shape-shift
into one human per group then I would have
told the hostages to run out with us pretending
to be a parasite too if they declined or yelled
out the truth once outside well they would
have ended up 6 ft deep pretty quickly
Mr. Kuramori is going nuts can't blame me
for it but oh boy is it not his fault he managed
to kidnap Tamiya's baby and took it for a
casual stroll inside the local zoo I guess
he called her over to reason with her.. or
explain why exactly is doing what it's doing?
I don't know
but it seems like there isn't anything more
dangerous than a desperate parent
Tamiya makes the case that the parasites and
humans can live together as one family which
is all beautiful and stuff but unfortunately
impossible if the parasites transform human
brains into protein shakes the only way for
parasites and humans to peacefully coexist
would be in form of Shinichi and Migi that
could be actually beneficial for both entities
but it would come along with many more questions
and difficulties that I won't mention in this
video
in the following scenes a few interesting
things happen first of Mr. Kuramori gets killed
by Tamiya before he can throw the baby into
its death like a spartan and getting rid of
a baby with imperfections afterwards Tamiya
saves her baby while she's getting shot
by the police countless times something that
should not have been possible according to
the nature of parasites she sacrificed herself
to save a human this proves that she put in
the effort more so than the humans to understand
us and use this understanding to adjust herself
I have to give her props for that
before she dies she hands over her baby Shinichi
and wishes all of them the best
I guess after all she was nothing less than
something thrown into a chaotic world with
no answers anywhere to be found she's basically
a modern parasitic philosopher concerned with
the questions of ontology I liked her.
RIP
At the same time it turns out that all Special
Forces back at the town hall were annihilated
they managed to kill each parasite apart from
Gotou which as we all know would not have
been the case if Shinichi didn't procrastinate
halfway through the movie
Now, say what you want about the live-action
Gotou but he is freaking cool.
He looks straight like a subject from a secret
underground lab owned by Orochimaru.
Shinichi escapes.
He knows he’s no match for Gotou and that
is scary.
If he can’t take him out and nobody else
can, then how do we get the job done?
Gotou seemingly can’t be harmed by anything
physical since his shield is basically impenetrable.
But those who have watched the anime know
that there are certain ways to get rid of
parasites.
First of all, each parasite is dependent on
their internal organs – just like humans.
Meaning if there’s a way to damage those,
especially the heart for instance, the parasite
would not be able to survive just like we
as humans
could not either.
To injure Gotou though is a little difficult
since he’s very capable in hardening his
parasite skin.
One of the few possibilities would be to injure
him through bigger detonations.
But even with this, it isn’t entirely guaranteed
that he couldn’t defend himself against
that too.
Another plausible way would be to poison him.
This would do the job relatively quickly and
doesn’t necessarily require a direct hit.
Shinichi doesn’t have time to think
about all of that and runs into a forest.
He knows that he can’t defeat him.
And so Migi comes up with a plan that requires
him to separate himself from Shinichi.
According to him, that way they can attack
from both sides giving them an advantage.
But it is no help
During this act of, let’s call it improvisation
Migi gets killed.
My heart broke during this scene and I hoped
for a Migi return.
But at the same time, I knew that this was
a Japanese production and therefore I knew
that
they would probably enjoy leaving us in despair
just like that.
e.e
Through sheer luck Shinichi escapes and hides
in a nearby storehouse.
His girlfriend joins and plays the night nurse
for the time being.
The rest is history.
In the morning of the following day, Shinichi
gets yet again eyeballed from the side, this
time by his arm stump.
Being just as happy as I was watching this
scene, he quickly realized, for the first
time during both movies, that Satomi is in
danger since he can be sensed by Gotou.
DUH
He leaves Satomi behind and escapes to the
local landfill.
If I were to experience my last moments, this
is not the place that I would pick.
Especially since running away from another
parasite, in that case even Gotou is pretty
much impossible
The last showdown breaks out, which reminds
me of the last scenes of the lord of the ring
trilogy.
Shinichi without the powers of Migi has yet
to figure out a way to kill Gotou.
But to me it looks more like he’s trying
to survive rather than actually win the battle.
If this was me, I’d probably batista bomb
Gotou into the fire.
But Shinichi comes up with some legit Matrix
moves instead and slides over the floor, grabs
a piece of metal and stabs Gotou like he’s
never done anything else
When Gotou strikes for the counter it seems
like Migi, in an extremely gross way joins
Shinichi’s body again.
It turns out he waited in Gotous body for
the right time, to go back to Shinichi and
save him one more time from death.
They have a beautiful and quick, probably
pretty smelly reunion.
And at the same time Gotou seems to be rather
unwell.
We eventually learn from Migi that the metal
piece Shinichi pierced Gotou with had a chemical
on it that poisoned Gotou and made his organs
shut down.
This led to an internal fight of all parasites
residing in his body.
Basically, their strong individual survival
instinct kicked in and the teamwork turned
into a free for all that ultimately led to
his demise.
Shinichi almost decided against killing Gotou
but Satomi suddenly appears, she watched the
fight from the VIP cabin above.
Lucky Girl.
This convinced him otherwise.
He understood that in order to keep those
he loves safe; he must finish the job.
He picks Gotou’s corpse up, speaks a few
last words and throws it into the fire of
the mount doom of landfills.
So apparently poison is the way to go
Always carry a few vials of deadly poison
and some metals shards perhaps even shuriken.
Every time you face a parasite that is about
to jump you, throw that shit right into its
face.
Thanks for watching